Welcome to our first section on the machine learning half of this course linear regression the linear
regression section has the following lectures.
We have a theory overview lecture which is this lecture continued on.
Then after that we'll have a documentation example lecture where we'll actually walk through the documentation's
own example of using linear regression of python and Sparke then we have our own custom code example
which is a little bit more of a realistic take on some more real estate data and actually applying linear
regression with Python and Sparke on that data.
At the end we'll have a consulting project exercise which we'll discuss in more detail when we get to
that lecture as a quick note.
If you've already gone through another course of mine that has machine learning topics or maybe you've
already read about machine learning and linear regression theory in general you may have already seen
this material already.
Be comfortable with the theory.
If you are feel free to skip the rest of this the theory of linear regression hasn't changed in a while.
All right as I suggested reading assignment I would recommend reading chapters 2 and 3 of an introduction
to mystical learning by Gareth James.
Let's continue on with the very basics by starting the history of linear regression.
So this entire idea all started in the 1800s with a man named Francis Galton.
Galton was studying the relationship between parents and their children.
In particular he investigated the relationship between the heights of fathers and the heights of their
sons when he discovered was that a man's son tended to be roughly as tall as his father.
However this was Galton's breakthrough.
It was at a son's height tended to be closer to the overall average height of all people.
Let's take a look at an example.
Shaquille O'Neal is a basketball player otherwise known as Shaq and Shaq is really tall.
He's 7 feet 1 inch or 2.2 metres.
If Shaquille O'Neal has a son chances are that sun's going to be pretty tall too over Shaq is such an
anomaly in his height that there's also a very good chance that his son will not be as tall as Shaq
and it turns out this is the case so Shaq does have a son and the son is pretty tall six feet seven
inches.
But that's not nearly as tall as that at 7 foot 1 and Galton calls this sort of phenomenon regression
as in a father son.
Height tends to regress or drift towards the mean or average height.
Let's take a really simple example in fact the simplest example possible.
Calculating a regression with only two data points so we're trying to do when we calculate a regression
line is draw a line that's as close to everything as possible for classically any regression or the
least squares method.
What you're trying to do is only measure the closeness in this up and down the section or along the
y axis.
So in this case wouldn't it be great if we could apply the same concept to a graph with more than just
two data points.
If we go back a slide we can see that this particular regression fits the data perfectly.
However if you have more data points how can we actually do this.
Well to take the same concept we could take multiple men and their sons heights and do things like tell
a man how tall we expect his son to be before he even has a son.
Now if we look at this plot we can see for this particular example we have a perfectly fitted line.
We've created a regression line that fits those two points perfectly.
However wouldn't it be great if we could apply this same concept to a graph with more than just two
data points.
By doing this we could take multiple men and their sons heights and do things like tell a man how tall
we expect his son to be before he even has a son.
And if you look at this plot on the x axis we have a father's height and on the y axis we have a son's
height and then various data points.
And you can probably already tell just by looking at this plot how a regression line would look on top
of it.
So our goal with linear regression is to minimize that vertical distance between all the data points
and our line.
So in determining the baseline we are attempting to minimize that distance between all the points and
the distance to our line.
Now there's lots of ways to minimize this.
And this is basically where that mask comes in.
Some of these different methods that you may have heard of before called some of squared errors some
of absolute errors cetera.
But all of these methods have the same general goal of minimizing that distance.
So for example one of the most popular methods is the least squares method.
So here we have some blue data points along an x and y axis.
Now we try to fit a linear regression to the line.
However the question remains how do we decide which line is the best fitting one in order to decide
which line fits this data the best we can use the least squares method which is fitted by minimizing
the sum of squares of the residuals where the residuals for an observation is the difference between
the observation itself that y value versus the fitted line.
So essentially the residual there are those red lines in this plot.
Now let's get an idea of how to implement this idea with Paice spark will ease into all of this by checking
out the simpler documentation example first.
Thanks and I'll see in the next lecture where we actually dive straight into this documentation example
using the Jupiter notebook.